Look at these quotes.
If you don’t DRIVE your business, you will
be driven out of business..
Or..
Let passion DRIVE your profession.
Oprah Winfrey.
Here’s one more.
Attitude DRIVES actions.
Actions DRIVE results.
Results DRIVE lifestyles.
So nice to hear!
But, before I could locate these nuggets,
the struggle I had to go through…!
It is tough, because, when you search on Google
for “Self-Driven”, you get CARS everywhere!
That is what we are going to see today!
Namaste!
Four hundred and fifty three.
Driverless.
About this concept of driverless cars, of
late, there has been a lot of … no.. not
hype.. lot of news.
Real driverless cars.
Cars that require very little attention.
Cars that can go by themselves in a highway
or enclosed campuses..
A lot of talk!
When we dig a little deeper about this, I
learned that there are six levels of automation..
Or, automatic, driverless mobilisation in
cars..
What are those six levels?
Well, these technology-folks?
They like starting the FIRST level from ZERO!
Level ZERO.. well, even our oldest cars are
Level ZERO.
You have to do everything from steering, driving,
accelerating, everything.
Level ONE?
Feet OFF.
You don’t need to accelerate, brake, some
of the things it will take care by itself,
but you need to give top-level guidance, directions,
and big picture appraisal..
Then, you take your hands OFF.
Level TWO.
You don’t need to lay your hands on it too..
There will still be a steering wheel.
But, it will have a map, it will know where
it has to go, know who is in front, it is
monitoring everything all the time..
If there is an emergency, if a child crosses
the road suddenly, if a donkey comes up front,
you may have to jump in.
Emergency Management.
But, it pretty much takes care of itself.
Hands OFF.
Then, you go to eyes OFF.
Level THREE.
You don’t need to even LOOK.
You can read a book.
You can SLEEP.
You can chitchat with a friend.
That is Level THREE.
There, it even manages exceptions, but probably
manages it poorly, you can wait to be called..
You may have to override it sometimes, it
may do things wrongly, occasionally!
But, it is eyes OFF.
Level FOUR is Mind OFF.
You needn’t pay attention at all.
You can just settle down cozily, with a book!
Look at that chap!
No feet on pedals.
No hands on steering wheel.
Eyes off the road.
You can be at ease.
But yes, it happens only in controlled environments..
It is truly liberating.
Override is available for you.
You may want to jump in.
For optimal performance, not for saving somebody,
but for optimising the performance.
Finally, after the Mind OFF level, is Level
5.
We don’t need you!
Human becomes PASSENGER!
It won’t even have a steering wheel!
No hands.
No eyes.
No feet.
No driver seat even!
The car seems to say, “I am fully capable
of handling myself!”
Autonomous.
And, the car is a better driver because it
is learning all the time!
AI comes in!
Nice!
While I was observing these six levels, I
couldn’t help but bring back to mind, that
famous book we have seen — DRIVE!
— it is not about cars!
This is about careers!
This is about what motivates people!
This is about what DRIVES people!
And, as I have been warming my ass as a manager,
for quite a few years now, I was able to draw
some parallels between this world of autonomous
cars and my probably-more-accustomed-world
of people being managed by people.
These same six levels of progression in a
person’s career…
Using the same slides…
Shall we go for a ride?!
Level ZERO.
The Manager is the DRIVER.
A person joins a job.
Fresh.
First job.
What is to be touched, what shouldn’t be
touched, what is to be implemented, and how,
when to slow down, when to accelerate..
everything!
It is micromanaged by the Manager.
Not only that, they handhold you.
They guide you through every step — how
it is to be done.
You are probably learning but they handhold
you through every step.
They give you guidance, as well as control.
The Manager is the Moving Force.
That is Level ZERO.
The Manager is the DRIVER.
You are just the dumb vehicle.
Hoping for better times.
Level ONE is Feet OFF.
The Feet is the accelerator and the brake,
mostly.
The Manager is still guiding you, giving you
directions, probably giving you the big picture,
a sense of things, “Hey, this is how you
do it, this is not to be done thus..”
They are also letting you take care of it
during a free traffic-less late-night or very-early-morning
nobody-on-the-streets..
They give you SOME Cruise Control.
Oh, this is hassle-free.
You just have to push forward straight!
And, when the going is straight with no surprises,
“Sir, may I try it for a bit”, “Madam,
may I get your permission”, is what you
do, and Feet OFF is what they do.
Next Level is Hands OFF.
“I am not going to give you direction either!
I have already taken my feet off the pedal,
and now I am saying, ‘Let me see you take
it in the right direction?”
I will be monitoring!
Are you driving safely?
Are there any unexpected obstacles cropping
up?!
Environment, I will be monitoring.
Because, you will be busy with the controls.
You are still learning the tools of the trade.
The way the game is played.
But, I will keep monitoring.
I won’t put my hand on the steering wheel.
I will be ready to jump in.
The moment there is a problem, the “Emergency
Handling System” kicks in, and I am ready
to handle any emergency!”
That’s Level TWO — Hands OFF.
What’s Level THREE?
Level THREE is Eyes OFF.
“I have given it to you.
I have surrendered it to you.
You take care of it.
That is Eyes OFF.
What happens in Eyes OFF?
You manage exceptions when you are called..
Are you the Manager?
Do people who work with you give up and raise
their hands asking for help and assistance?
That is when you come in.
That is when you dive in.
And you manage that exception.
In the world of traffic, it could be an old
man suddenly deciding to cross the road.
In the world of business, it could be an angry
customer, a customer who has been with you
for a decade perhaps, righteously angry, complaining
about something, and you needing to do some
firefighting.
And finally, “Dear Friend, please leave
this to me.
I will take care” — says the Manager sometimes,
and takes the wheel.
That’s Override — sometimes, it may be
needed.
Level FOUR is Mind OFF.
“Did I give this job to you?
Did I ask you to do this?!
Thank you!
Looks like you have finished it all by yourself!
Wow!
You have done it better than I had expected!
Very good!”
That’s Mind OFF.
In the Mind OFF world, override is available.
The employee says, “You can take over, any
time you want, dear Manager”, and the Manager
is smug in the confidence that they can take
over any time they want..
It is available.
But, hardly ever used.
And, it is done mostly in controlled environments.
Even today, autonomous cars they can do very
well in roads that have barricades on the
left and the right.
The assurance that cattle won’t crossover
suddenly, that a child won’t flit by chasing
a stray ball, that sort of controlled environments..
Or, probably in Mars and the Moon, where there
is open space, “I can do very well”.
In “time-critical” companies, they use
a term..
BAU they call it.
Business As Usual..
Should just continue.
Come rain or shine, or even an earthquake.
In such controlled environments, Level FOUR
people can do very well.
That’s truly liberating for the Manager.
If a Manager can elevate the people who work
with them all the way to Level FOUR, that
is literally Nirvana.
You have reached a stage where you are liberated,
you are rendered a lot of extra time to do
the next amazing thing in your list.
But, wait, there is a level even beyond this.
Level FIVE.
In which, the Manager becomes the PASSENGER.
I think this deserves some deep thought.
In today’s fast-paced world, the reality
is, most Managers don’t know that specific
trade well enough.
So much has happened.
So much churn has happened.
So many new things have cropped up.
The Manager is still vitally important, because
they have WISDOM.
But, KNOWLEDGE?
That is the keep of the newly joined folk!
The Level FOUR Mind OFF People.
Only when you transition from Level FOUR to
Level FIVE, you become that truly invaluable
10X employee.
What happens at Level FIVE.
You become fully capable!
You become sentient.
You become..
like they say, the AI Singularity..!
That is the position you reach.
When you are fully capable, something changes
suddenly, and your learning potential, your
ability to learn by looking left and right,
by looking at other people following that
same path, … that is why Google Maps is
able to show you a traffic-snarl so beautifully
and promptly as a river of blood overlaid
on a line of blue.
How?!
Hundreds of travellers, if they have followed
the same path, at similar times, and suffered
similar trouble, it learns!
What is the right optimum speed with which
I can cross this bridge?
It learns.
This kind of vehicle suddenly accelerates,
I need to be careful when trailing it..
It learns.
And, it doesn’t keep quiet just learning.
It shares!
With anybody else interested in learning!
If you can bring together employees like these
in your team, you are already in heaven!
It is autonomous!
It takes care of itself!
That book, Drive, it talks about the sense
of autonomy..!
I am doing this..
I was interested in doing this.
And, because of my interest, I chose to do
this all by myself.
That lights the fire.
And, finally it is a better driver than the
Manager could ever dream to become!
That is in the traffic world.
And, in the business world, it is a better
performer than the Manager was, ever.
That was the aim of the Manager all along!
The Leader wants to create people who can
render them obsolete.
Who can tell them, “Thank you for the trust
you placed in me..!
Thank you for tending to me along these six
levels..
Now, let me take care of you!”
We saw SIX LEVELS.
I want to share three learnings from these.
Be it for driving a car, or managing a team.
Three learnings.
Number One — Monitoring is important.
Looking around.
Observing the environment.
What is happening around you.
Taking it in.
Observing.
Processing what was collected..
This is just a tree.
This is a person, standing immobile, like
a tree.
This is water.
This is a child’s image reflected on the
water surface.
That processing.
And, having processed that, what should be
my reaction.
The same, in the business world.
What is the competitor doing?
What is the customer doing?
What is my teammate doing?
What is my Manager asking?
Taking those matters in, prioritising them,
what action is needed for which, where is
inaction perhaps the best action,..
Monitoring..
The second learning is about Exception Handling.
Today, in India, nobody really talks about
the autonomous cars..
And the reason?
Traffic!
It is not heavy traffic that we are afraid
of..
It is the chaotic, unpredictable traffic..
We need to learn to handle that traffic.
That is Exception Handling.
Similarly, as the business grows, you will
realise that the world is not in your control.
Human beings are fickle souls.
Suddenly, a very happy customer may turn unhappy.
Suddenly, an opponent, a competing company,
that had been badmouthing us all along, might
want to merge with us?
These are all exceptions!
How do you handle that?
And, finally, the hallmark of a good driver,
the hallmark of a good employee, is Continuous
Learning.
To learn by yourself, and to be ready to receive,
when others who have learned other things
want to offer their learnings to you, … That
is what makes a rickety old Model T into a
WayMo Google Car.
The Closing Thought is from this book.
It is called Being Digital, published in the
late nineties.. by this man, Nicholas Negroponte.
Founder of the Media Lab at MIT.
The person who seeded the AI revolution, a
supremo of Virtual Reality.
He lays forward a beautiful puzzle in that
book.
He says, “The coming years will be a competition
between two aspects.
One — is transportation.
The other — is communication.
Both are growing very fast.
Communication was slow, unpredictable.
But, with the advent of the Internet, we see
video calls, soon virtual presence, communication!
Transportation?
From cars to jet planes to hypersonic flight,
is moving very very fast.
Both are progressing very fast.
But, interestingly, one person will win this
race.
And, destroy the other.
Make the other unnecessary.
If the communication is so good, I may not
want to travel at all.
That is what is happening in today’s remote-presence
world!
If I can travel as fast as I want, when I
want, why would I need communication networks?!
I will be there!
Don’t you agree?!
Alright, we will meet again next week..
We will communicate!
Meanwhile, don’t go away!
Thank you!